e
e e
well good morning folks how are
you if you would all be so kind if
you're following me on Twitter or X if
you could just give me a heads up give
me a 5x5 let me know you guys can hear
me
awesome thank you so much
folks all right we're going to do a
little bit of a teaching this morning
that I think will serve you well uh this
is something that is applicable to Forex
and indices so it's not something that's
just limited to stock index
Futures
so I want to take you out to a daily
chart real
quick sorry about
that I did not put my my pups away so if
you bear with me one second
on this guy's so unprofessional look at
this he does this for free he does this
for free and
he he irritates us with all this extra
stuff all right
so look at this Candlestick right here
on July 17th 2024 that's the Cy that's
what has been our objective since
uh well since the ENT shipment 24
started that would likely draw us up
into this in here so if you look at the
gradient levels we have this
candlestick's low that's the high this
candlestick's High that's the low of
this civy sell side and balance buy side
and
efficiency midpoint is
20568 upper quadrant is 20646 and
3/4 and we've seen that traded to
yesterday and it looks as if it hit it
today as well
so when we're trading inside
of areas where it may
consolidate even though you have a
bullish bias even though I have a
bullish bias
it's important you look at what
overnight did okay and with these levels
here just note that the dotted heavy
dashed I'm sorry heavy dotted uh lines
are respective to this individual single
down close Candle on the daily chart
there's going to be small
little levels which you I'll put on the
chart and you'll see how I'm putting
them on in a moment don't get them
confused with the dotted lines okay so
the the lower black one here is this
candlestick's daily high on the 18th of
July this candlestick's low that's a a
black dotted line then you have the
upper quadrant blue midpoint is kind of
like a purple
Hue and the lower quadrant is a blue
okay so just be mindful that and we're
going to drop back down into a one
minute chart
you can see the reaction off of that
upper quadrant level so far right here
that's what this is and if you scroll
down a little bit you'll see the black
one up here see that so we have where we
are right now to this level on the
upside if everything remains bullish
this is the range that's between market
price and where it would me the trade
to I have
added because I want my son to
understand daily highs and lows uh there
is the opening B here let me put on
regular trading hours you can see the
the Gap it's
rather anemic so we're not terribly
excited about that so far this
morning we have some cell side down in
here be mindful of that Scout honey I
can't hold you right now not right now
girl go play so just be mindful of this
right here
okay it's a nice pool liquidity there it
may be
impactful this morning's Trading
just want to annotate the opening range
Gap all right so that is the uh the
range if you will so if we look at
the the days where it can consolidate
okay and I'll tell you what that means
in a moment comparison to a day that's
trending if we are in a day where you're
looking at the market on a daily chart
and you're TR to determine if it's
bullish or bearish or if you have
already maintained a bullish or
bearish bias and you're you're waiting
for the next leg in price higher or
lower respective to your buyas we'll say
that we're sticking with the bias that's
been given us since the beginning in
August of this this year when I started
the 20204 mentorship on YouTube I stated
the indices would be bullish they're
going to keep pumping them up until we
get into the election because the
perspective is the neopit or the the
street money or the unlearned or
non-investors uh they see the stock
market as a measurement of the economy
and it's not true but that's that's the
mechanism that they use during uh
presidential election years so if you
haven't never wrote that down in your
Journal just make sure you have that
there so with everything being
[Music]
bullish okay what you want to do is
anytime when the Market's
bullish and you have
a consolidation range where we have it
like this see what's still in
here just staying in a rather large
range in here you want to Define it to
time strip it down to
time yep that's that Scout licking her
water this is so unprofessional cannot
believe he's forcing us to listen to
this dog lapping up its
water so this is midnight in New York
local
time Hey listen I'm giving you some
leway here but you're really taking
advantage of it be quiet
and
to 5:00
a.m. okay I think I just moved
over okay so you have midnight New York
local
time and you have 5:00 a.m. so these are
overnight hours it's very specific times
and then what you want to do is you want
to get the highest high and the lowest
low between those two price points or
two time reference points
apologize okay you don't count the
midnight candle and don't count the 500
a.m candle it's between those two
delineations in time okay so what you'll
do
is you can't use that
Candlestick see can't otherwise it would
be that that Candlestick that I would be
anchored to I'm not doing that notice
that
don't worry I'll be looking at live
price action at uh 10 o'clock let the
opening range transpire I don't I don't
need this price movement right here so
the midnight Candlestick and then after
that so
1201 to 459 what's the highest high and
the lowest low well that's right here
that's the
high and that's the low once you have
that information what you can do is you
you grade that price
meaning you take your FIB just simply
take it put on the high that's not the
high drop it on the highest
candle down to the
lowest and you're going to be showing
the quadrant levels that means your FIB
will look like this you'll have a 0.25
level
0.75 level 0.5 level your one level and
zero level that's the high and the low
the range you're defining that's
equilibrium which is halfway and then
the upper and lower quadrant
respectively depending upon which
direction you draw the Fib from okay so
as you saw that I draw I drew rather the
Fib from the highest to the lowest in
that defined range between 1201 and
459 this is your
overnight range so what this is actually
doing is is this this is going to allow
you to predict yes predict Virginia
you're going to be predicting some
things with this information okay so
because you're in a Range you don't use
this concept when the market is
trending okay so when the market is
trending it's been like running in One
Direction overnight this is not what
this is this part of a larger range so
if it's been like just tearing off taken
off from Asia and just keeps going going
One Direction higher or lower you do not
not use this for that but when you're
when you're part of a larger
consolidation which is what you're
seeing
here all in here we did not take out the
high here and we did not take out the
low here so we're consolidating leading
up to the beginning of pre-market
session for Tuesday's trading which is
today today's right now
so what I've did is I've defined
this overnight range and we have graded
that okay now I'm going to change the
the the levels here from a DOT to a dash
so that way there's a distinction
between remember I was telling you on
the daily chart those dotted levels that
is going to be the quadrants inside that
daily CBI or cellid balc bid
efficiency contrast that with now the
heavy dash line which is defining the
overnight
range when you have this information
it'll allow you to predict the general
location in close proximity where my PD
rays are going to form so that way
you're not surprised they don't they
don't just jump out at at you
un unexpectedly let's put it that way so
a lot of questions I've got over years
from my private mentorship students a
lot of the questions I get from YouTube
viewers or whatever uh emails messages
now they go and they text message me
please don't text message me because
I'll block you I won't answer your
question I'll just block your phone
number but the
uh the idea is I want to get an i an
idea on how to
communicate to students how they can
predict in the general proximity in
terms of the price now the time aspect
is is always constant you you know the
times they're macros they're um the
opening session we have the 8:30 algo
that's when 8:30 this starts spooling
price runs for liquidity you saw me do
that yesterday I'll go over that trade
by the way before we close today I will
be done at 10:30 so we won't be having a
very long session today I'm trying to
keep them small concise and to the point
but if you look at the levels and again
this is the lower
quadrant middle
an upper quadrant you see that of the
overnight
range let me Zoom back out a little bit
so you can see the reference points
again here's the high of
it the upper
quadrant the
midpoint lower quadrant and the low so
this is the low overnight Range High the
overnight range very simple not
complicated is it I gave you very
specific times to look at I told you why
we're using this why are we using this
because it's part of a larger
consolidation it's not an extension run
where since Asia started last night it
didn't start running in One Direction
it's been it's been maintained inside of
a larger range so I already know some of
you that are brand new are going to look
at this and be subjective and say well
you
know how can I not see this as a trend
or how can I not see this as a reversal
because you're trying to take everything
that either heard somebody else as a
student mention or maybe a few of my
videos and you're trying to form fit and
take you know certain aspects of what
you're unaware of and you're trying to
cram in every lesson for now just
understand that this is a concept that I
use when a market is being held in a
Range it's not being permitted to extend
further overnight it's staying in
yesterday's predetermined range so
inside of the daily range of yesterday
we haven't made any new significant high
or low so because of that I elect to use
this concept I'll look at overnight
range defined by
1201 to 459 eastern time that means your
time always has to be set to this okay
if you're looking at trading View and
your time is set to anything other than
that you're doing it wrong period okay
so what you can do with this now is
think we've been bullish I've not been
calling a crash I've not been calling it
lower we've been Focus fusing on
primarily the higher time frame macro
perspective not macro in terms of time
the the the perspective on the higher
time frames is it's bullish because it's
an election year because it's likely to
continue going higher where can it trade
to well it can trade into that larger
CBI on the daily chart
so with these levels here these Dash
lines that's on the overnight range
these smaller little dotted lines here
and I think if I go up a little bit more
you'll see another one right here so
here's the upper quadrant to the Daily
Cy here's the midpoint of that look what
happened today when we went down and
made the low of the other night range
going into 430 it turned around in there
and then look at that right there at 508
what's happening there
TimeWise what's occurring right there at
that candlestick's
low it's trading
to the consequent cage of the daily
CBI okay so just for a just for a moment
because I want you to understand what
I'm pointing to here what this level is
we're going to go back into the daily
chart just remember that that price that
low there is 20,5
67.7 okay right
there we're going to jump right back up
to a daily chart because I want you to
see I want you to see what I'm pointing
to and what I'm referencing because I'm
sure by going back and forth in a time
frame
you're
losing your
focus that's this level right here
20568 even it's defining that
candlestick's low that candlestick's
high halfway that's what that is okay so
that's consequent encroachment because
it's a inefficiency or Gap if it was an
order block it would be mean
threshold the midpoint of that price
level of this individual candle stick
what I'm highlighting is essentially the
middle of
this that right there and usually you
would see me hideing it like this it'd
be something with a red Hue or whatever
but I'm focusing your attention right
there on that
midpoint now let's go back down to the
one minute
chart and right there on on that
candlestick's
low 20,
56775 it went one tick one tick below
that daily Cy consequent encroachment to
so to get that price perfectly if you're
a smart money Trader it has to do what
it has to trade one tick below it
because you just can't create the low at
20568 even which is consequent Coachman
that would be the algorithmic delivery
if it was perfect but not affording any
smart money to buy it because
to buy it that this has to be at least
one tick below that
price you follow what I'm saying so if
we're looking for Longs and it trades
down to a specific price level it's
reasonable to anticipate it to go one
tick below for Perfection for Perfection
and you're seeing that happen here at a
time listen now
listen 4:50 to 510 a.m. that's Asia's
close we're seeing a shift from the
Asian market
to
European London crossover into New York
so we're entering what pre-market
session for New York session but we
still have Europe we still have um
London still active until around 11
o'clock 10:30 something like
that so at that moment we can see
algorithmic price delivery right to the
tick just like that and it turns
at a higher time frame level that you
would have never paid any attention to
now when what are we we're bullish so if
we're bullish on the marketplace we're
expecting price to react off of these
levels and cause displacement to the
upside that means we want to see price
start to run higher from it we're not
trying to short we're trying to look for
displacements moving away from them it's
an energetic price run that says look at
me pay attention to me you see that
happening here and what is it doing I'm
going to take this uh 5 a.m. line off so
just be mindful just I'll give you one
chance to take a a screenshot of it that
wait for your notes
Caleb everyone else you should be doing
this in your own charts he doesn't have
the experience navigating through them
as much as some of my older students but
if you're going to be lazy you know I
can't stop you
but that's what the opening I'm sorry
the overnight range is from high to low
and the gradings Okay g r a d i n gs
gradings that's that's what this is so
we see this happen here and it starts to
spool higher what is it doing it's
taking out the relative equal
highs right here which are qualified why
because this high is slightly lower than
that one so what's going to be resting
above that shortterm what minor buy side
liquidity so the market rallies up above
that trades into this inefficiency there
and then comes right back down into into
in this price leg in this price leg
right there it creates a fair value Gap
where is this fair value Gap in
proximity to I don't know um this this
dash line is it above it or is it below
it it's below it so in reference to that
price and
time what time is this what time is it
right in
here 5 50 to what 610
macro holy holy smokes this is
unbelievable right because now you're
starting the gears are turning aren't
they oh my goodness oh my goodness you
better start making some more videos
because you're literally making me smile
every single day I'm a fraud look I's
exposed
himself come on make some more videos
come on come on below that quadrant okay
below that quadrant when you're bullish
if a PDA for forms it is in a
discount it's also in close proximity to
it so that means we're expecting this to
deliver what a redelivery in price which
we see here and then once more here what
time is that candle stick
forming 55 minutes after 5:00 a.m.
that's the 550 to 610 macro then the
market does what it delivers price
higher and what does it run for
equilibrium of the overnight range
that's this dash line here okay forget
all of this stuff here forget all that
for right now it's trading into that and
then what does it do it comes right back
down into some random level some random
Elliot wave white golf wannabe stuff
okay it trades right back down into the
lower quadrant once more and does it
stop there absolutely it does
not trades down into your fair value Gap
right there so that makes us what
reclaimed bullish fair value Gap and
then what does the market do completely
random completely unexpected it price
runs from there all the way up past the
minor buy side here above this buy side
and trades right to the upper quadrant
of the overnight
range now what do you think's above that
overnight range look how smooth that is
that's that's probably something
significant what what be resting above
that oh I don't know probably some buy
stops somebody that would have been
riding this short hoping it's going to
keep going down and the market runs to
that level here upper quadrant retraces
back down into what oh my goodness look
at this fair value Gap how do you pick
the right fair value gaps all the time
ICT why do you keep picking them you
must be recording on a dozen screens
because you have a dozen screens and
you're recording all of them and you're
looking for the one that works and then
you're going to share that one you have
any idea how hard that is to juggle all
that you guys give me too much credit
you guys G me way too much credit all I
have to do is the right stuff what I'm
teaching you right here this is the
right stuff okay NASA follows my logic
okay we do the right stuff okay so again
look at the criteria now look at the
criteria here's
equilibrium okay just so happens there's
a short-term low there what would be
there sell side liquidity why would that
be there because they start to run a
little bit here and they're going to
chase it who Longs Street money unin
people YouTube influencers with
affiliate links for their stuff because
they don't really trade but they want to
make videos about
me keep making them baby keep making
them because you're bringing them right
here and you're learning how to do it
for free so below that sell side
liquidity there's your equilibrium price
point over theight overnight
range so what's below that in close
proximity oh it's just this this random
fair value got right there when we're
bullish and is it below your equilibrium
of the overnight range absolutely so
what is it it's discount
to the young man that put YouTube video
there you don't need to do anything in
premium and discount I don't do anything
with premium discount it's nonsense
you're clueless you're clueless son
listen you need to sit down and take
notes because you're not learning
anything by experimenting without the
stuff I've taught you're going to be
doing it randomly you're going to lose
money and you're going to assume that
the stuff doesn't work when it's perfect
okay Pac they refer to me for their
Precision they come here they come here
for the Precision for their watchmaking
because you can set your watch to what
I'm doing the Market's going to deliver
just like that just like that so the
market comes back down into a fair value
Gap that is in close proximity to the
equilibrium price point of the overnight
range that is clearly defined it is not
complicated it is not complex if you
don't know what time it is on your
charts then you're a idiot you
have no business listening to me or
anyone else you shouldn't be trading if
you think that's complicated if you
think this is me complicating anything
you failed in element School guaranteed
they pushed you through school there's
no way there's no way you deserve the
graduate degree or your diploma if
you're if you're still carrying one if
you can't follow what I just showed here
today very specific price levels if
you're bullish the pdats will form at
them but below them oh so we're in a
discount that means there if there
really is this elusive hard to believe
exists algorithm then there has to be
logic that repeats over and over and
over and over again around the things
I've communicated to you what PD arrays
around
time time it has to be the time for the
market to move otherwise it isn't going
to move it'll stay stagnant or retrace
against you period now if it's being
held there that means there's manual
intervention that means they're holding
it for something later in the day or the
next trading
day that part you're going to get burned
by I get burned by it it's nothing you
can do about that because if they want
to get their hand in the cookie jar you
can't stop them period that's why you
have to have a stop loss that's why you
don't over leverage so what does it do
it drops down into some random fair
value
Gap right here and it's half of the move
that you expect to see deliver which is
the high of the overnight range price
rallies draws back down into another
fair value Gap here
if you were looking for a
long if you were would you be afraid to
buy it in
here would you think it's too much of a
premium it's too high can't buy it can't
do it
no what happens when you see price on
the upper half of the overnight
range you don't want to see anything
come back down towards the low of the
overnight range but we have to deal with
what
the opening
bell we have to we have to anticipate
some kind of volatility coming into the
marketplace but before the opening bell
what takes place at
8:30 usually there's news if there's any
news that's on the docket for the day
it's either going to be a high impact or
a medium impact news driver but you
don't need that I'm teaching you that
there does there there hasn't ever been
a need for me to have a calendar event
on 8:30 8:30 isn't algorithmic price
delivery the algorithm does this very
thing every single day at 8:30 it will
spool and it creates some kind of
sentiment driven response in Traders
because they want to chase it they want
to they want
to believe something that's either in
play or maybe potentially reversing and
it gets their their appetite revved up
because they want to got there and start
trading in another
hour think about it it's kind of like
when you watch the uh the cheerleader
you watch the players on the field or
whatever before they go out on and play
their game or whatever it is they do the
chers get them all red up who not the
football players they could care less
about them it's the it's the crowd well
the spectators here are the speculators
and they're waiting for that opening
bell so at 8:30 there's always going to
be what there's going to be a price run
starts just like that and if you have a
medium or high impact news driver at
that time at 8:30 New York local time
then it just exasperates the likelihood
that the move's going to be
exaggerated and that may or may not be
indicative of the underlying direction
of the day or not very minimum the
morning session
so price comes back down does it go back
down to the halfway point after leaving
it here
no in this area upper quadrant it's
going to be less likely to have the the
same degree of precision why if you look
at my teaching in the core content of
the 2016 2017 mentorship I talked about
price grading and then I talked about
how in the upper
quadrant there is less degree of
precision because it's going to be more
inclined to run and rip towards to if
it's bullish it's going to just kind of
leave that range and keep going or at
least clear the the high of that range
and that high being the overnight range
the market trades back down doesn't take
out that low doesn't trade back down to
the middle of the overnight range and
consolidates roughly in here and then
reaching again still higher we're in an
upper quadrant of what that daily CBI
what's above
this we have Monday's October 14th daily
high so there's going to be buy side
resting above that so if it going if
it's going to go higher it's going to
want to reach into this level if
continuing sticking with the higher time
frame election year bias it would likely
draw if it's going to be a perfect World
in a perfect world where there's
redelivery that price right there is
where that daily C's uh high is so to to
deliver back up to that price level
would at least afford that old daily Cy
to be rebalanced it doesn't rebound
simply because it trades there it needs
to leave the range higher or lower
respectively just just going back to
this level here is just simply
redelivery that's not
rebalanced all right so give me a second
here these little girls are getting too
rambunctious and then starting to
distract me so bear with me one second
okay I know this stuff is amazing for
being free
I had to steal a drink
too spring water baby I don't drink
alcohol I get high on
life all right
so you can see how sloppy and uh disorg
disorganized it is thus far so that's
why I said we're going to be waiting
till 10:00 and we'll see what we get
there in regards to the next price run
higher or
lower but I want you to think about how
you can use the overnight range defined
by 1201 midnight New York local town and
then the 500
a.m. well 459 rather defining your chart
like that and then getting the range
measurements from the high the upper
quadrant the middle or
equilibrium the lower quadrant and the
ACT ual low and then when we start and
we transition this is the this is the
part I skipped over because I'm being
distracted by my dogs I apologize for
that but you this is what you get when
you get it for free right you GNA have
to be a little bit more patient and not
have a entitlement mindset because some
of you guys are leaving comments are
just a little too
rude and demanding and I just want to
remind you that I'm doing this for for
free and because I like doing it not
because I'm obligated to so at six
o'clock we change over and that's that's
your pre-market
so at 6:00 a.m New York local time to
listen
now to
9:30
right there this is all pre-market
session there's so much opportunity
inside of that range and you never need
to trade to opening bell you never need
to trade the morning session you never
need to trade to launch macro you never
need to trade the PM session you never
need to trade the last hour trading if
you have a job that requires you to be
at work or you run a business or you go
to university or if you're just simply
in a different time zone and you can
afford to use this area of price action
you don't need to do anything else man
you don't need to do anything else it's
it's ample it's it gives you plenty of
opportunity plenty of it now does that
mean every single day you're going to
find a winning trade there absolutely
not I can't guarantee that I can't
guarantee that you're going to have the
prow or the skill set they make even one
winning trade because so many of my
students they watch a video and they're
in a rush to try to go out there and use
it right away try to pass a combine try
to get a payout whatever you you want to
kind of like defer that and study the
things I'm teaching you here are very
very top tier time aspects to what the
algorithm will refer to
and it's dependent on you understanding
whether the market is in a protract
protracted state that means it's it's
trending it's going in One Direction
overnight if it's doing that you cannot
use what I just showed you here today so
what does that mean you're going to see
this actually get used more times than
when it's trending so this is a kind of
like a an Mo in the morning where U I
generally will refer to what the
overnight range was I'll grade that
price swing and all I have to do is
determine if I'm bullish or bearish if
I'm bullish then I'm going to be looking
for every one of these gradient levels
prior to the 6 a.m. pre-market trading
session I'm going to look at those
ranges or the levels rather this is the
low the lower quadrant equilibrium upper
quadrant and the high
respectively based on 12:01 to 5:00 a.m.
that's easy stuff folks it's really
really easy now what do you think would
happen if we were bearish and and what
we were watching this morning or what we
be expecting this morning we' be looking
for PD arrays to form just above these
respective levels to offer us some kind
of a shorting
opportunity you see how easy that is
it's very easy it's not complicated it's
not complex it's not a lot of moving
Parts you don't need to know what order
block it is you don't need to know what
macro it is every macro every macro
every 10 minute to the top of the hour
to 10 minutes after the top of the hour
okay how many do you have you have 550
610 that's one 650 710 that's two 750 10
uh 810 that's three 850 910 that's four
you have four opportunities plus you got
the 830 algo where it comes online and
starts running at 8:30 so you have five
opportunities in pre-market that's the
equivalent of the same thing you get in
the last hour of trading you think
that's
coincidental no it's absolutely not it's
all coded it's all scripted all these
things that you're watching in price
action and you're you're flipping out
like why did it do this let me write
down I got to send a comment to I why
did this fair value G work but this
didn't work I'm showing you that I'm
teaching you that but you have to see
other things to understand and
appreciate me pointing to that that fair
value Gap what makes this fair value Gap
good it's below equilibrium it's in
close proximity but it's at a discount
relative to that equilibrium price point
that this little purple line right
here I'm on real time you're never going
to be able to see them on the hard right
Edge it won't ever happen for you it
won't ever
happen but you'll complain and you'll
say this stuff doesn't work but you
didn't win Robins but you didn't do this
but you didn't do that oh but I'm out
here telling you exactly how to do
it come on man you guys are making it
too easy
so here is our Focus
for the 10: hour going into 10:30 I have
to budget my time because I'm going to
need about 5 minutes to review yesterday
trades with you and then we'll close it
at 10:30
so we are looking at
a
abysmal opening range we have buy side
here here here and then we have the
Monday October 14th we had a really
anemic that means weak very lackluster
opening Gap what did I teach in the uh
the mentorship for 2024
here if it's a small Gap that is
indicative of what of rather crummy low
impact very lackluster not exciting not
an easy run from entry to Target morning
session
so my best advice for you okay this is
what I'm telling my son you all can do
what you want to do but I'm telling my
son
Caleb and all the other boys that I have
that are watching I'm sure
the the absence of a significant
Gap okay an absence of a gap of like
4550 handles I I like I like that okay
that like that's a minimum threshold for
me but I prefer 75 handles that's what
I'm looking for if you want to know that
the morning session that I'm absolutely
going in there and going right in there
at the opening soon as the opening bell
happens and we get our first print I'm
not even going to wait for the first
fair value Gap that's just a model for
my son
Caleb I don't need that I'm going to
trade with 70% likelihood that it's
going to go back to half the Gap if it's
75 handles or more I'm going in there
right
away that's what I'm I'm looking for
reasons to do
that but what can we do if the Gap is so
small and it's it's anemic in other
words here's where we here's where we uh
settled at yesterday at 4:14 p.m. that
opening I'm sorry that closing price
there and then we opened up
here so if we if we look at like
this we have uh 20631 and 3/4 is your
opening price and then you
have the settlement price previous day
settlement
at
62.75 like that's it's it's
weak like that's weak that's like
Patrick wheelan's course it's weak you
can't you can't really do anything with
that so you have to do what you have to
expect more information you have to sit
still just sit still what do you wait
for you wait till 10
o'clock you work inside that 10:00 to
11:00 Silver Bullet you wait for for
your very value got the form look for
liquidity and if it doesn't give it to
you based on your your bias or if it
doesn't give it to you in a in a clear
obvious way then you do nothing why
because you were warned ahead of time
there was very little bit of excitement
or displacement right the opening bell
your your opening Price Right There is
so small into where we closed at 4:14
there has there has been no excitement
created by that Gap so that means that
we can have what a 5050 delivery in the
morning session so what does that mean
for you as a day trader that you have a
little bit more time available to you
and you could trade the lunch macro or
you could trade the PM session or you
could trade the last hour trading that
means that that's what you would defer
your trading to you would simply just go
okay I'm going to go and completely
remove myself from the charts this
morning and I'll come back at 1:30 I'll
watch the first 30 minutes going into 2
o'clock and then I'll trade the PM
session or I'm just going to let it do
whatever it wants to do until 2:45 and
then I'll sit down get a view for what
it's likely setting up and then I'll
trade the last hour
trading you see how easy that is it's
easy to to fine to manage your time to
schedule your participation in the
marketplace versus I got to get in front
of the charts I got to push the button I
have to do something because what
well I have to that's what the Traders
do I mean we have to get out here and
push the button and just figure out what
happens afterwards ffo right well you
don't want to do that as a Trader that
that's gambling you're gambling just
because the markets are Printing and
open doesn't mean it's time for you to
trade professionals are not in here
looking for every excuse to do something
they're looking for the best choicest
setups if they don't submit themselves
to that are they following their model
no are they gambling yes are they being
impulsive and emotional most likely
and that's exactly what you want to
avoid doing you don't want to do any of
those things in this mentorship 2024
I've taught you how to sit still more
than any other educator out there and
it's based on Sound Logic that things
that repeat that tell you to sit still
it ain't worth the risk sit still it
ain't worth the time or the investment
the stops are going to be hit most
likely your risk is going to be larger
the the direction becomes 5050
during a very specific session this one
if the Gap is
small if it's anemic that means sit
still sit still nothing forces you to
get in there and trade it
period remember this cell side right
here let me get these lines off here
because that's not all I'm doing was
drawing attention to those prices which
we won't necessarily need now
now I personally would like to see the
market create a close on this
Candlestick here come back up trade into
this fair value Gap and then come down
and take the sell side that's what I
would like this see
for some of you just already went short
because I pointed that cell side again
out you're thinking please don't retrace
back up there now please
[Laughter]
don't we're looking at regular trading
hours by the
way and that 594 and A4
is yesterday's afternoon at the start of
the PM session notice that 1:32
o'cl that is a
very
repeating level of
liquidity when you look for your session
highs and lows you want to look at
between 1:30 and 2
o'clock uh for your PM session and you
want to do that in the previous day and
the day before that so for the last
three days you always want to look at
the PM session highs and PM session lows
but you also want to start looking at
whatever has formed at the beginning of
132 o'clock that's that opening range
going into the PM session so because
that time window that 30 minute interval
is synonymous with setting up the the
direction uh the liquidity where the
initial liquidity would be and here you
can see they created those relative
equal lows and then they rallied all the
way up in the afternoon now we're
getting ready the Pierce underneath that
and it's because that that liquidity is
a constant it's it's something that you
can go back to on a time-based uh
principle it's not something random it's
not something ambiguous it's not
something that constantly morphs into
something else that you can't trust and
rely on it's a very static thing like
8:30 is just like 9:30 is just like 9:30
to 10 o'clock is they're very specific
elements of time so because that time
aspect
is it's finite it it's not it's not
changing it's something that will always
be a factor for the algorithm so just
know that between one30 and 2 o'cl
whatever has formed at that 30 minute
interval above or below it there's going
to be liquidity there and if the market
is likely to draw back into it and you
saw it again here today if it's likely
to do that see these two lows
here she's trying to get out of that
kennel
she this guy
lets his dogs make all this noise and
I'm trying to I'm trying to record all
this
stuff let's go back to electronic
trading
hours so upper
quadrant on The Daily Cy see that
we're breaking down
into these lows over here there's a
little bit of liquidity in the there as
well and if we lose the overnight low
which is this level down
here then it becomes a lot more
significant for the morning session
hang on one
second e
I had to trick Piper she wouldn't go in
her
kennel unless I give
her a treat so we came down below here
and now we want to look at the overnight
lows and here we come
just like that
so when we're looking
for morning session runs price
runs unless we've had a protracted
Market delivery overnight at means where
and youve you've asked me this a couple
weeks ago where we had the Asian session
just it just started right away and
started running One
Direction this concept of using the
overnight range because not it wouldn't
be part of a consolidation then it would
be a market protraction and that means
the Market's trending you don't want to
do that you don't want to measure that
and expect these levels to have any kind
of importance if it's part of anything
other than that then it's part of a
consolidation so it's a lot more likely
it's going to form using these types of
ideas than without it meaning that you
can use this idea this concept because I
do it every single day if there has not
been an overnight Trend and I go in and
I
measure where my PD arrays should likely
form around price then I simply submit
myself to the aspect of time I know that
the the macro is going to be this this
this this this every 20 minutes of each
hour it's the first 10 minutes before
the top of the hour or let me say it
this way it's the last 10 minutes of the
existing present hour to the new top of
the new hour to 10 minutes after that
new hour so so it's whatever hour it is
50 minutes after that hour to 10 minutes
after the new hour so it's always at 20
minute interval there there's always
some kind of price run where it's
spooling for liquidity or reaching into
an
inefficiency these macros are more
sensitive because they're more prone to
deliver price because of the increased
measure of order flow that's coming in
and it's used to facilitate that where
it graduates their introduction to the
marketplace where large institutions
large firms large insurance companies
um large entities they have big big
blocks of orders they have to push
through the marketplace they're not
going out there and just throwing them
all in one time they're easing them in
they're easing them in and a dealer will
facilitate that for them who's clearing
their trades for them and they will push
them through at appropriate times
sometimes those may be appropriate more
so for the dealer so that way they can
they can make an in-house book and use
that that threshold that this entity has
said look I would like to make a
purchase of this whatever or I would
like to sell or distribute this but I
want you know try to get an average
price of this much or or better so that
function that's existing with Without
You realizing it without you knowing it
because you're looking at chart patterns
and things like that you don't
understand what the actual financial
markets are doing and how they
facilitate trade on a large scale they
use these macros to to to shove that
liquidity through the marketplace that's
why they're there that's why that
happens that's the function of what
they're doing so it it's kind of like a
built-in mechanism to allow and afford
large entities which you're not I'm not
and it allows them at every hour because
people are watching how much time they
got left in the trading day how much
time does it take between where I'm
looking at it right now and when the
opening bell happens the whole time the
market is being pushed through this
aspect of time and you can only get so
many orders
through during a small window of time
and because of
that it has to happen around a specific
price level for these large entities
they just can't go in there and just buy
it at the market because they feel like
it's going to go higher they have to go
in
in measured
appropriated staggered movements
otherwise you they're never going to get
efficient fills they're never going to
get uh efficient executions because
they're trying to get an average cost
price
that's appropriate for them for their
risk model or for whatever their
customer needs are why they're going
into the marketplace to do anything
whether buying or selling so at every 60
minute interval there's this short
little span of time it's it it's 20
minutes and during that 20 minute time
frame they're shoving orders through
they're piping them through it's not
their entire block of orders it's just
that's when they're starting to push
them through okay they're not looking at
these weird numbers that I see people
always tweeting to me oh yeah I I see
you you know eight 11 n well it's
nonsense they think they figured
something out I swear to God Almighty
none of that stuff has anything to do
with what I'm doing or what the A's
doing I promise you I promise you okay
it has nothing to do
with gold box stuff okay I promise you
there if you use that stuff and it's
helping you you God bless you I swear to
God it has nothing to do there's nothing
going on with that information in here
okay I promise you it's not happening
but it's these aspects of the time
element that I'm I'm forcing you to
spend more time looking at and because
we're leading up to the opening belt
9:30 every hour that creates that macro
and during the pre-market session at 6
o'clock to 9:30 there is several
opportunities for you to anticipate
where my PD arrays are going to form
you're not going to be surprised by them
you're not going to be like where' that
come from you're going to be
anticipating them expecting them and in
relationship to your bias where it's
likely to reach to how far is it going
to go it went to the upper quadrant of
that daily Cy sweeping the relative
equal highs here here and here what did
they
leave what's above that my
side do you because you see this drop
down in here do you abandon the
bullishness on the daily chart because
you see that so many retail Traders
would so many retail Traders see that
kind of stuff and that's exactly how
they use this type price action it
discourages them to want to be long it
discourages them to ever want to
consider that maybe the higher time
frame you know just had a little
retracement today and it wants to go
higher for the next three weeks until we
get into
election knowing what you're looking at
in terms of the the delivery of Market
protraction that means when the Market's
just running One Direction like this
would be a market protraction for
instance it's this one-sidedness but
it's a very small one because it's only
been
going for about
what 40 minutes or
so not
even about a half an hour that's a very
small Market protraction it's one-sided
onesided delivery if the overnight is
behaving that way from Asia all through
London if it's doing something like that
you do not do what I showed you this
morning because it's not going to help
you but I have tools for when it's doing
the the protraction okay I just can't
teach it all today because it take me
longer to do it but here when it's part
of a large consolidation and there is no
one-sided protraction
overnight and it's part of consolidation
to Simply get the high and the low and
Eng grade it with the lower quadrant
equilibrium and upper quadrant stick to
the bias that's determined on the higher
time frame we have been bullish so it's
going to reach for what it's going to
reach for some measure of a premium
array well that c that we looked at
that's the upper quadrant level here and
it reaches into that multiple times
offering what it's like pling horseshoes
you ever play horseshoes in the United
States we have a game where you take
these two metal poles you pound them in
the ground and you actually take
horseshoes horse
uh I know there's going to be people
that don't know what I'm talking about
because from another language or a
different part of the country but
basically the metal apparatus this gets
hammer on the bottom of a horse's foot
in its hoof uh we have created this game
it's been a long long time I can't tell
you how long it's been in existence but
the the object of the game is to take
this horseshoe and toss it at this post
that you nailed into the ground and
you're trying to get a ringer it's
called where the Horseshoe will go
around the post and that's what you're
you're anticipating is you're you're
seeing this level here the high of the
overnight range the Monday high and then
if it was to keep going up in here
that's the high of the daily civy so
what you're doing is with your orders
while you're long you're tossing
partials into these levels trying to
secure a ringer trying to get a
profitable you know exit but if you
don't know what you're
doing with finding fair value
gaps this is going to help you because
it's going to give you a degree of
understanding a general proximity in
terms of price where it should
form but how to qualify it if it's below
a level from the overnight range and
you're bullish that means you're
discount so that means every fair value
got
below these gradient levels of the
overnight range that makes it a high
probability high
probability not it might work I hope
this one holds up these are the ones I'm
trading on this is the this is the ICT
Fair V Gap that I'm trading on these are
the ones where I go in there and I'll
put six contracts on it runs away from
it comes back down touches the top of it
again I'm adding four more contracts
there and then it rallies up and it goes
into this one this one here because it's
below half of the move or equilibrium
it's still in a
discount and it's a discount relative to
this level here with that fair b g and
then I I'll add more there a pyramid so
what did I just teach you here today I
taught you how to find the right fair
value gaps how to qualify and quantify
them not in ambiguous terms very
specific finite terms based on time how
everything comes together and it just
beautifully Dove taals together but
there's no algorithm
right there there's no algorithm and the
market rallies and it reaches the clear
the buy stops above here which is the
overnight
range and then it doesn't just go above
here by a little bit it goes above to
touch that daily Cy that sells out
balance by efficiency the upper quadrant
before it completely fills it in by
going all the way up to here there's a
lot of range still there and then that
range just was increased by this
dropping down taking out overnight
lows so my question to you is
this does this make sense to you in
terms of defining which fair value got
now and I know there's some of you that
are brand new or just recently came on
to my stuff and you're thinking I this
doesn't make any sense to me I
understand that it wouldn't for you
because you're too new but for the folks
that have been dabbling with them
studying them back Tes and looking for
fair value gaps and you have asked
yourself the question all the time I
guarantee you have how is he picking
that fair value Gap why is he getting in
there why is my entries taking off as
soon as I get into them that's the
repeating questions that come to me by
my paid students that's the same
questions that come to me by way of the
comment section That You Don't See but
you can leave a comment I can see it but
nobody else can see it
because I don't want all that love Fest
and yes there's people out there saying
you're a fraud you haven't done this you
haven't done that
I I don't care about that what I'm
showing you is the stuff that works I'm
telling you when I pick the fair Bay
gaps that I trade on I'm using
predominantly this right here okay
there's other things that I do to
further increase the likelihood of me
being correct about the fair bag guy but
this in itself is the easiest go-to
strategy plan for you to be able to
formulate an approach to saying okay I
trust that the bias is bullish I trust
that the bias is bearish
based on that logic You're simply going
to use this information as I showed here
today this is not a lecture where you're
going to watch it one time and you're
going to understand what I just said
because you're going to need to refer
back to it a few times you're going to
go and look at old data and then refer
back to what I said here because I
guarantee what I've said here you're
going to think that I created an edited
format because it went over over your
head the first time because you you
already have some idea in in mind what
you're reaching for for a model and
you're trying to take every new little
thing I talk about and press it into
that to make it click for you so you can
go out there start making money you have
to try to defer that push that aside
because just because you're now learning
more ideas about what makes a fair value
Gap valid or
not what happens when that shift in
sentiment changes from you're not B
you're not bullish for that morning
session or that afternoon session
anymore what do you do
then everything that you used here
on the upside becomes what part of a
market maker sell model so everything
over here that would be a bullish fair
value Gap would become an inversion fair
fair value Gap over here anything over
here that would be a order block that
would be bullish would be a
inverted uh basically it would reverse
its role and characteristic as a bearish
order block it would repeat it would
reverse its role
and this is the lower quadrant on that
Cy right
here now when you have a range like
overnight range and you define it like
that other things you can do is you can
do extensions off that and get an idea
how far it can go for targeting for
partials for potential reversal patterns
um and what you would do is you simply
take the the
range the first one is you always want
to reach for is the negative 0.5 level
and that one's here and then negative
one is one standard deviation which is
that and we hit the lower quadrant on
that Cy on that daily chart let's go
back out to the daily chart real quick
let me take these off for a moment
because there'll be too many lines in
the chart
otherwise this Candlestick is the CB I
keep referring to on the daily chart you
can see up here
daily July 17 2024 it's a Wednesday that
singular down closed candle that's the
civy this is the low of it that
candlestick's high this is the high of
it this candlestick's low equilibrium
lower quadrant is
20489 the low of it is 410
even
20489 go back into a one minute
chart 489 is that level right there see
that so we traded down to and Below
equilibrium of that daily
civy and what did it do
there protraction lower reach to the
lower
quadrant that's the low of the Daily
city right
here I'm a little bit over my time so
let me go back to yesterday's real quick
and we'll look at
the I think I got a chart already set up
for this give me a
second 30 second
all right so if you follow me on Twitter
or
X I shared this
yesterday and I was out running around
with my uh
wife shopping
again any excuse for her to use credit
cards she's gonna jump on honey we could
save
30% if we get this right here you I tell
her I could save a 100% if I don't buy
it at all we don't need that stuff but
you
know that's that's wife
math ladies don't come at me okay don't
come at me I'm just being honest all
right so here we have the uh the session
yesterday okay and Thursday October 10th
2024 daily high so we have done what we
went above it here came back down went
below it once more back above it once
more below it and then we rallied back
above and we're keeping what relative
equal highs we have minor buy side and
it's also what it's an election year
it's bullish the Market's likely to
continue going higher and we've already
explored the likelihood of digging back
down into October 9th daily candle
that's the high of that so look on your
daily chart Thursday October
10th of this year note that high and
when you drop back down into a one
minute chart or in this case it's 30
seconds every every Candlestick on this
chart is 30 seconds so what we're
looking at is I'm not I'm not trading
support and resistance okay because the
the idea of support and resistance would
say this this is the the daily high on
October 10th we went above it when it
came back down touched it right here if
we were just simply expecting the old
highs and lows of a previous day or
previous week then that right there
should have turned the market higher and
started going higher and that's what I
expected as a 20-year-old because the
books that I read said that that's how
support and resistance would work they
give you these perfect examples these
perfect little things that would create
this opportunity a wonderful repeating
phenomenon where you can go in and make
all the money you ever want and quit
your job in in two weeks okay I had
unrealistic expectations just like all
of you have when you come to watch my
content for the first time so I'm not a
support me assistance Trader but I do
use the order flow around old highs and
old lows if you are not aware of
the old highs in the last week every
individual day you want to know every
single daily high and low of the last
five days and at least Friday of last
week you want to know what last week's
high and low was those levels are going
to give you what I'm going to show you
right here this is an endless supply of
setups okay I want you to sit still for
a second put down put down your writing
instrument for a moment okay and just
think for a second
think what would it feel like if you
knew not
guessed not was influenced by me or
anybody else what if you knew how to go
into an endless supply of new setups
that it's never going to hide from you
it's never going to be changed they're
not going to change this okay this is
this is not something that they're going
to change the algorithm you're never
going to be able to take advantage of
this anymore this is always going to be
there folks okay I want you to
understand that I want you to get
excited about this part this is where
you can allow your emotions to come into
it I want you to feel happy and excited
because it's absolutely an endless
supply of setups period it will never be
exhausted
okay if we're
bullish if we're expecting higher prices
by knowing the highs in the last 5 days
and at least the previous week's Friday
and in knowing the previous week's high
and low you will always know where order
flow is going to come in and all you
have to do is wait for the displacement
and what does that look like well here
we have the the rally above the high on
October 10th that's this level here okay
if you put this on your own chart this
is why I'm leaving parts of this stuff
out so that way it causes you to have an
interactive study where you have to go
into your charts highlight the actual
high of October 10th 2024's high it's
last Thursday okay but putting that
chart I'm I'm sorry putting that line on
your chart and then watching how price
Gates above it and comes back down it
doesn't stop there and go higher even
though it's bullish it does not stop
there and go higher it does what it digs
back down into the range that's exactly
what you want to see because what that's
doing is it's offering you the
opportunity to study and measure its
willingness to go deeper into that range
does it want to do so no how do we know
that because we leave that range and go
back above the high of October 10th
again here and then what does it do do
we do we buy it now because it does this
and touches it no give it an opportunity
to run back down in does it want to take
the relative equal lows
here
no it it's left the bait here because
you're being trained to look for
relative equal lows to be traded to but
what happens if it doesn't do it it's
telling you what it's not likely to go
lower and if it's not likely to go lower
when you're already predisposed to
expect higher prices then you're what
you're in a buy program then expect
protraction higher you see that here the
market rallies back above October 10th
now are we looking for the market to
come back down and touch that high like
a support and resistance folks would
assume no absolutely not what we're
looking for is any inefficiency on the
pass down that will act as an inversion
fair value Gap that's what this is right
here now as it's dropping down I'm
looking at that fair value Gap knowing
that if it's really good it won't even
touch it because we spent some time in
here and then left it I'm I'm going long
right in here I'll show you the
executions in a moment okay and then the
market rallies up and it leaves these
relative equal highs and I'm noting in
the video that you can watch on
Twitter I'm noting these volume
imbalances volume imbalances are the
most flexible or it's the PD array of my
repertoire that you as the analyst you
as the trader you as the implementor
behind pushing a button if you ever
decide to do
that you're going to see price go
through these types of things okay
because
it's a measurement of a willingness to
see the price sustain a run higher or
low it can be used as an entry it can be
used as a partial it can be used as
managing your stop loss but I like
looking for these little tiny pockets in
price action and it's basically the the
the absence if you look real
close it's the absence between this C
stick's body or open and this
candlestick's
closed there is a wick touching but
there's no bodies there that's what I'm
highlighting in that video it's got a
little music uh track added to it on on
Twitter same thing here small little
separation between the candlestick's
bodies there's one in here but I'm not
worried about that one because i' I've
framed one here and I framed one here
and I'm watching how price behaves but
then this fair value gap which is what I
was aiming as I entered the first time
and added multiple uh entries on
then when it dropped down in here and it
closed that initially right to that low
I fired in there again but I had already
typed out that the launch time is now I
said at 8:30 the Market's going to spool
higher go watch that recording you'll
see every annotation just as I typed it
then everything here is exactly how I
left it when I recorded that live
execution but I timed it and told you
very specifically the launch time is now
why how did I know that how did I know
that was going to happen because at 8:30
if I'm bullish I want to see the price
drop down to a discount array that's
this fair value Gap it could have went
down and touched this inversion fair
value guy and it would have been fine it
would not have it would not have changed
anything but because it didn't touch it
here and it created this fair value Gap
and it already started to run up and
left these relative equal highs I know
it's just coming back down in here to
redeliver into
here that's why you'll see when I'm
adding the executions on the chart
you'll see that that's where I fired in
and added my last portion and I already
anticipated by saying that the launch
time is now hits it stops to the tick
and starts to Rally up and then I'm
watching do these volume imbalances
support price it trades up to it look at
the bodies respecting it then comes back
down look at the
bodies see that see you're see the
and ass hats they're watching
these Wicks and they're looking at this
look at this stuff it doesn't have any
Rhyme or Reason what's going on you're a
clown look look real close you
see the bodies see what those bodies are
telling you it's respecting that
inefficiency right there between these
two Candlestick bodies that's exactly
what I'm
watching that's algorithmic price
delivery that's the very thing that I'm
looking for and if price runs away from
that then I know that if I wanted to I
could add more when it's inside that
little volume of balance there and add
more to it and then rally up or I could
take this drop down in here and trade
this inefficiency fair value Gap and
that could have been an
entry why because this volume IM balance
is here and I'm trading in a fair value
Gap that's below that volume of balance
that means we're in a discount throwing
a market that's bullish after the
algorithm starts firing at
8:30 and
then volume imbalance right there I was
going to annotate that but I had missed
it because I was looking at my dogs at
the time and I didn't want to go and add
anything to it but anyone watching that
trade just as well as you can see it
right here you can see it there it's
being utilized right there consequent en
coach that's the midpoint of this
separation these little pockets okay
these little tiny little separations in
the volume of the Candlestick you cannot
get this information in any other aspect
of charting so when you listen to these
clowns these clueless idiots
these dweebs okay these people
that have zero understanding zero
understanding by Price Books they'll say
time based charts are trash TR time
based charts are are useless you have no
idea what you're talking about you have
literally no idea no one's ever told you
how to use a Time based chart until I
started talking about it and holy
did I just step into a narcissistic pile
right there didn't I well guess
what scoop up and swallow because it's
the truth no one ever told you to look
at the candlesticks like I'm teaching
you to look at them no one's ever told
you to focus on the elements of time
using these candlesticks with this
information before it's never been done
before because I codified it this is my
okay and when you guys are
making these videos and I'm
coming out here doing it over every
single day over and over and over again
I'm laughing at you I'm laughing at you
because you're taking the bait you're
doing exactly what I want because more
people are coming here and they're
watching the technical science being
taught and more people this rest of this
year are going to be making more money
using this More Money More
testimonies coming forward so keep
bringing them here I love it you're
working for
free keep them coming engagement farming
done right so I want to take a look at
the executions here okay this is
probably going to
be a little jarring for some of
you so as the Market's trading and we're
dropping down okay and you can see
clearly this is not Market replay okay
see that can't do that on Market replay
but the
uh the entries in here look inside this
fair value
guy it's in the lower half of that fair
value
gun that that is at top as it's hitting
it right here in this volume in balance
as it's trading down here I'm trying to
time it as it hits it but it's kind of
it's kind of difficult when you're doing
on a 30 second chart I'm doing it where
I'm I'm pushing into the the price
action as it's going in a Direction I
want it to go which is opposed to the
direction I'm trading in so other words
I'm trying to enter when the Market's
going down I'm never trying to go in
when the Market's going up if the
candlestick's painting
bullishly I don't want to be going in
after the candlesticks started going
higher and now it might open like in
this case here we have the Candlestick
opening up here and trading down that's
ideal I'm sorry I said that wrong it
opens up down here and trades higher so
it's creating a bullish Candlestick in
this Candlestick I'm trying to trade as
it's fluctuating
around and in close proximity to that
volume bance that's what I'm trying to
aim for and over here same premise I'm
trying to time it as it's entering that
volume imbalance here I'm trading inside
of this little separation I'm trying to
get that little return back into that
Candlestick as well here
similar down here I'm trying to time it
as it's trading down into this fair
value Gap all of these could be further
refined if I was willing to use a limit
order but I'm trying to force myself to
use every aspect of proving it's not
Market replay so that's why the the open
and close or the buy and entry sell
button for buying this
basically you can't do you don't see
that in Market replay okay so it's
actually better that I did that but um
I'm
using this way of showing it to you so
that way anybody that understands
trading view knows that this is not
Market replay and anybody anybody can do
it in Market replay and make it look
good anybody can do that
but I'm teaching you how to read 30
second chart okay why 30 second chart
why not a 15-second chart because the
price is a little bit cleaner little bit
more refined a 15-second chart is a
little bit more spotty in here spotty
means that there's a lot more volume
imbalances I like to have a chart this
is for this is the part where you write
down I like to use a time frame that's
sub one minute that doesn't have a
plethora or a a exaggerated number of
volume imbalances I want to have like a
a few of them
so I want to be able to see them if they
form but if I'm looking at a like a
5-second chart I'm going to have a whole
lot more to choose from and I don't want
that so the 15c I didn't like it so I
focused on the 30 second and I'm only
using the 30 second chart just to kind
of like drive home the the the emphasis
that I am not a one minute chart Trader
I'm not a five minute chart Trader I'm
not a 60-minute chart Trader I'm a price
Trader I'm a Time based price delivery
Trader an algorithmic delivery
Trader so I'm I'm looking at price in a
way where I'm expecting it to behave a
certain way with these repeating
phenomenon that I titled PD array around
specific elements of time so because
8:30 here is the 8:30 window right there
this Candlestick when we get close to
the top of the fair value Gap I'm I'm
getting in there and then finally
hammering it as it's creating that down
close candle right there I'm hitting
that there's the entry at the time I'm
telling you that the launch time is now
so it drops down and right from
there creates these little uh confirming
that I'm on side that's what these
little Candlestick bodies are telling me
folks okay I'm on side I'm on side and
then I'm expecting price to rip and it
does and then you start seeing it run up
it gets this little volume and balance
tagged right there and rallies up
and then there's the uh objective now I
could have held for longer okay as's a
joker on Twitter that likes to come
after the fact all the time you never
see a stop loss in his trades you never
see him execute either but he's always
got some kind of screenshot that's kind
of lame show your execution while you're
doing it move a stop loss you don't have
a stop loss in here because you're using
something that you don't need to trust
okay I have a stop loss in every single
one of my executions it's always there
it's always being managed and everybody
sees the repeating phenomenon and
routine that I'm using I'm not rushing
it to break even I'm not rushing it to
to strangle The Profit okay but
yesterday I couldn't stay the babysit
the rest of the position I told you last
week that 20538 was our objective it
didn't trade there last week but guess
what it did yesterday traded to
20,538 and it did that I had a limit
order to get me out there I had enough
time to Hur compress it throw a music
track on there and then out the door I
went so I was not able was not able to
sit and ride all this up and babysitter
my wife asked me to stay off the phone
you know for the time we were out and I
I honored that request okay so in the
afternoon a little bit
later what do you see
here what's
this what is
this the fair I got
cby Market trades up into it I'm
entering
again on a 30 second
chart there's my
fills and it drops down I'm willing to
see it come back up in to this
breaker so that means I have to afford
myself what the likelihood of going into
draw down but if it trades back there
I'm going to add more to it but I need a
little bit more information should it do
so what information is that well it's
trading up into that quadrant level
breaks lower creates another Fair back
Val you
got
entry I'm waiting for the market to do
what show a willingness to take buy
stops there at a
quadrant breaks fair value G
entry same thing here I'm looking at
this Wick I'm trying to time it with
this fair value Gap being traded to I
want to get in there at that Wix
consequent encroachment right here
and that's a whole lot St get down to
just the middle
level it's fun ain't it a this fun man
this is so much this is so much better
than
College some of you guys that have
that're young they're like your parents
may be listening that thinking what the
hell did he just say you need to stop
listening to this guy I'm paying too
much for this college so I'm trying to
time it right there at the consequent
encroaching of that Wick right there
adding more to it and then I shared live
as it was aiming for the the cell side
below here knowing that we had a
abbreviated session yesterday because of
holiday and I wanted to get out when it
took that cell side there because it
would most likely draw back up into the
middle of the range between here and
here worst case scenario in best case
scenario it could come back up and try
to take that high out so I didn't want
to ride any of that in so I went short
added more there and then the The Fill
as it was aiming for this low I want to
make sure I get out so I had the limit
order just above it so there you go
that's low hanging fruit objective
that's the level I'm looking for the
sell side below that is what I want to
see it trade to but my exits are sliding
on into home I don't require that low to
be taken out why because I might be
wrong because it's a holiday they may
not want to come back down in there they
may may may they may want to do that at
six o'clock's restart in the afternoon
or evening time when they when they
resume trading again so that's where my
exit was there and then that's the
business
so um let's take this back over
here and I think that's going to be it
for
today this is a first presented Fair Val
got from last week I don't recall on
what day it is but um it was I think it
was
on the second half of the week so either
Wednesday or Thursday look at that and
you'll see that that's what that is
another reason why you should annotate
your your charts with these labels like
this I don't need to do that because I
write my stuff down on a notepad
but that's a first presented fair value
got two these two these two dark thick
lines
there so I covered a lot of stuff today
I talked about how I picked the right
fair value Gap what constitutes uh
qualifying the fair value Gap I talked
about the open night range how to use
that when is it useful when is it not
useful um if it's part if you're part of
a larger consolidation you're going to
grade it if you're doing a market
protraction overnight you're not going
to do that at all and you'll have to
trade differently and also if you have a
market protraction overnight that
usually puts you on the sidelines in the
morning session so you already had a big
move overnight so expect excuse me the
New York session to be either a market
reversal profile or consolidation
meaning that unless you're very vers
with reversal patterns don't trade the
morning session if you have an overnight
trending market and then wait for a
launch reversal or PM session trade or
trade the last hour trading so there's a
whole lot of conditions there that helps
you should have helped you rather Define
when you should expect something to form
when you should sit still when should
you feel comfortable sitting still and
why should you feel comfortable sitting
still also where the fair value gaps are
best what's the best ones what's the
ones I'm I'm going to be trading in
what's the ones that I have elected to
trade on and it's based on premium and
discount it's based on a previous range
that the algorithm will refer back to
it's not ambiguous it's not some kind of
contrivance uh you know madeup stuff
it's something that you're going to go
back in the charts and see over and over
again repeating constantly always there
always there and what happens if you
don't see these elements in price
action then you have manual intervention
that means you should sit on your hand
hands and don't do anything if your if
the PD arrays that you're highlighting
are not responding and respecting price
the way they should remember
inefficiencies fair value gaps you don't
want to see them hanging around in them
trade into them leave and if you have
defined your fair value gaps based on
your bias with the overnight range as I
showed you here by grading it you know
the general proximity of where a fair
value gap or order block or breaker or
stop run is going to form all of the PD
arrays are going to gravitate around
these levels don't just think it's just
fair value
it's not just that it's whatever pbrr
that's going to be given to you at that
time with price being utilized for that
that purpose meaning during the macro or
8:30 because there's the only departure
it's always the 50 minute after to 10
minute after that's the element of time
when the price is going to start
spooling during the pre-market sessions
there's several hours there you can do
that with but there's one outlier it's
the 8:30 8:30 does its own thing that's
when the algorithm comes online and it's
full force just run because it's going
to push price around for that first hour
ahead of 9:30 opening that's what it's
doing that's its function okay so and
it's also allowing a lot of orders to be
pushed through when there's economic
data remember I was telling about
earlier how the dealers that are
facilitating and executing the orders
for large entities that are not
necessarily always trading for the
purpose of trading for profit they're
not out there trading competing against
you they are holding risk or their uh
window dressing and their portfolio me
they their cycling through and
reappropriate things in other asset
classes and other other instruments so
if they're trying to unload something or
acquire it the dealer will facilitate
their requirements and Expectations by
pushing the orders through at these very
high volume times and that's what's
going on okay that's exactly what's
going on you're not going to see it in
your books you're not going to
hear some Jo on the internet
tell you this is what is going on but
that's exactly what's going on okay so
when you have this perfect storm of all
this order flow coming in that is not
causing the market to go up and down
they're utilizing that high volume okay
not high volume that high traffic time
where there's more participation it's
easy to throw those orders into the
marketplace they're they're consumed
quickly and it doesn't mean that the
Market's going to go really high or
really low because they they push that
volume in remember that big volume is
being broken up throughout the day
throughout the morning throughout the
several hours they're pushing those
orders in you know you're not going to
get a company like
uh I don't even want to put a person's
or company name out there it's just a
large conglomerate large entity that
would be trading very very large their
entire order is not getting pushed
through on one one pass through they're
not just say hey you know sell me you
know1 15 billion dollars worth of SPO
you know at the market they're never
doing that that's never happening okay
so what they'll do is they they know
that their dealer has been given
instructions okay to facilitate that
request but average cost needs to be a
part of it they're not willing to have
this position either accumulated or
distributed without at least factoring
in some measure of value that they're
hoping to hold on to or acquire in in
purchasing it so that's what's really
going on that's behind the scenes that's
what's going on with these times and
what the order flow is coming through
it's doing and that's not going to cause
price to go up and down it's just going
to be that much more of time in sales
being booked and printed but the price
is going to go where the price is going
to go and they have no control over it
you don't have any control over it and
we're looking for the the maximum damage
where can it move the most to hurt
whoever's been making money okay so
I would love to keep can talk keep on
talking I I really want to I've already
went over more than I wanted to my time
so I'm going to close this one wish you
all very pleasant day I will be back
with you tomorrow Lord willing at 9:25
is tomorrow uh we'll meet again and I'll
give you some more information about the
macros and algorithmic Christ Li until I
talk to you then be safe